Business owners and employees in every company know that producing quality goods and services is key to the success of the business.  While they know that producing quality goods and services is not the only thing that is important for business success, without this key ingredient it is almost impossible for a business to succeed.  This knowledge has led many companies to set up various types of quality improvement programs.  These programs exist both in companies that produce goods and in those that only provide services.  One basic way many companies improve quality is by updating and maintain the equipment used to produce goods.  Keeping equipment up to date is an ongoing process, and for many companies it is a major annual expense.  In fact, for larger companies this may be one of its largest expenses every year.  Another way companies manage quality is by creating quality controls, including measuring business outcomes.  This approach often leads to the creation of entire departments devoted to this activity.   These departments are sometimes called Quality Control.  This team includes experts in measurement who are knowledgeable about many aspects of the company.  Quality Control managers may collect data using various computer systems.  They often also collect samples of work output and subject them to various quality tests.  In addition, they might conduct employee job observations to see if there might better ways for employees to do their jobs.  Another way many companies work on the quality is to obtain employee input.  Employees are asked about ways to improve the goods and services they provide to customers.  This activity can take the form of quality circles and other team activities.  Employees are often a great source of input because they are very close to company processes.  This is also true for service industries such as hotels, restaurants and storefronts.  In these types of settings, employees directly provide services to customers and see the impact of their activities every day.  An interesting aspect for this type of quality improvement program is that employees often see things that can be improved at little or no cost.  These employee ideas can lead to new work procedures that are implemented across the company.  On the other hand, even when employee suggested changes might require larger expenditures, the benefits over time almost always outweigh the costs.  This is because improvements can lead to greater customer satisfaction and sales, which is something every company wants.  Another way to determine if the goods and services are of high quality and improve them is to ask the customers themselves.  The simple example of having a suggestion box is one way to obtain this customer feedback.  This also can be done with various types of surveys.  Online product and service surveys are quite common.  Examples include ratings of restaurants, hotels and purchased products.  In fact, customer ratings have become a key piece of information new customers often look at prior to making a purchase.  In addition, when current customers are highly satisfied with products or services, they are much more likely to purchase them again.  Companies know that keeping current customers is much easier and more cost effective than trying to obtain new customers.  And satisfied customers are also more likely to recommend the company to their friends and family.  Having your customers recommend your products or services to others is one of the best marketing tools.  Word of mouth advertising is very effective and does not require direct company expenditures.
