Probate is the legal process by which a court supervises the distribution of property left in a will as well as that property left by those who die intestate, without a will. This process normally takes a considerable amount of time, money and effort but can be avoided by careful planning. For example, bank accounts and residences owned jointly will pass directly to the survivors outside of the probate process. The proceeds of life insurance policies will likewise go directly to named beneficiaries without passing through probate. However, even where probate can be avoided by such means, it may be wise to have an attorney draft a will. In that way, you can determine precisely how your property will be distributed among your heirs. In the absence of a will, state laws will determine the division of your property according to established legal guidelines. Typically, a surviving spouse would get half of your estate, and any children you have would divide the other half equally. Next in line for inheritance would be grandchildren, followed by parents, brothers and sisters and other relatives of the deceased. In the event that a person dies intestate and there are no heirs who can be traced, the property of the deceased goes to the state. Often the complexities of probate are such that only an attorney familiar with the process can be reasonably certain to avoid potential pitfalls by drafting a valid will. In order to be valid, a will must be in written form. An audio tape or video recording will not suffice. The will must also be signed by the person making the will and by two or, in some states, three competent witnesses. The maker of the will must also be competent, not insane, senile or mentally impaired. Other matters that should be included in a will are the names of all beneficiaries, what you wish to leave to them and who would receive the property if they should predecease you. A guardian should also be named for any minor children you may have, if your spouse does not survive you. The same person or another guardian can be named in the will to manage the children's inherited property. Most importantly, an executor should be named who will list the assets of the deceased and carry out the directives of the will. For any trusts created by a will, the will should name trustees whose responsibilities it will be to administer the trusts. Also recommended is the name of a residuary legatee who will receive that portion of the estate that is left after all bequests of specific property items have been made. This portion is frequently the largest and those who get it are the ones the deceased intended to inherit the most. In most states, you can spare executors and trustees the expense of posting a bond to guarantee that they perform their jobs properly by stating in the will that no bond is necessary. In any case, those named in the will should be selected carefully. An effective executor should be efficient, capable and fair in order to prevent delays, resolve conflicts and reduce the cost of implementing the will. Executors may or may not be beneficiaries or get paid for their efforts. However, some states stipulate that if the will does not specify payment, a specified commission will be paid to the executor based on the size of the estate and the court's estimate of reasonable compensation. If the executor named in the will is dead or refuses to serve, the court will appoint an executor when the will goes to probate. In such cases, the beneficiaries can nominate an executor by filing a petition with the court. Against the possibility that a named beneficiary may be dead when the will is executed, it is generally considered wise to name alternative beneficiaries and to specify how long they need to survive the deceased in order receive the bequest. An ultimate beneficiary may also be named who will receive the residuary estate on the chance that all the beneficiaries named in the will are dead. In naming guardians, good judgment must be exercised to select individuals who can provide for the proper care and upbringing of the surviving children and for the responsible management of their inherited property and financial support. These obligations can be assumed by the same or different individuals named in a will. They can also be undertaken by the court if the will is silent in these matters or those named in the will are dead or unwilling to serve. In the case of a child's personal guardian, the court will usually favor the choice made by the last surviving parent. In certain cases, a court may decide that the best interests of the children may be served by someone other than the person named as personal guardian. This is also true of the property guardian. In the event that you do not name the personal guardian or anyone else to handle the property you leave to a minor child, the court will usually appoint a competent adult family member to handle the money. In some cases, however, an attorney may be appointed to administer the minor's estate until the child reaches the age at which the state mandates that he or she must be given the money remaining from the bequest. An alternative to using a property guardian is to leave property to the child under laws adopted by most states that allow you to appoint a custodian who has wide authority to handle funds for your child without strict court supervision and accounting constraints. Another option is a children's trust where a trustee is selected and given authority to pay for the child's general expenses and education from the assets of a trust set up on behalf of the child. Such a trust may be established as part of your will or outside of the will.
